Z79Forth is intended to be compiled with William Astle's LW Tools cross
development tools. It is made publicly available for download at
http://www.lwtools.ca/. The current version, as of this writing, is 4.18.

The preferred development platform is Linux. The Makefile is the src
directory assumes that lwasm is reachable somewhere in your PATH. By default
it builds an Intel ihex ROM image (SW/src/forth.hex using the default tunable
parameters enumerated below) and an LST file which can be extremely handy when
debugging.

When building a new image, be sure to have defined all the tunable parameters
available in src/constants.asm. Of particular importance, with respect to the
accuracy of the MS primitive, is the value of the MSLCNT constant, because
it depends on the processor clock's frequency.

If rebuilding the target image from the source code or after having changed
some of the tunable parameters' value, Under no condition should the value
of the AVL symbol be negative!

Tunable Build Time Parameters Description
-----------------------------------------
Those are defined in src/constants.asm. They are:

Name	Default	Alternative	Description
CSSNTVE	0	NZ		Select 0 for a case insensitive implementation
				or 1 for a case sensitive one. In case sensitive
				mode, those digits encoded by a letter _must_
				be entered as upper case. Be also aware that
				all the predefined dictionary words are stored
				in ROM as upper case characters.
SSDFEAT	1	0		Setting this tunable to 1 enables the 'symbolic
				stack dump' feature. This will result in
				priceless symbolic information to be displayed
				by the error handler after a run time error has
				occurred. A dump of the system stack will be
				provided regardless of the value of this
				tunable parameter since return addresses in
				Z79Forth are stored in the system stack, as
				opposed to the return stack in more traditional
				implementations.
RELFEAT	1	0		Setting this tunable to a non-zero value
				enables the 'reliability' feature. When the
				feature is on, an extra byte is added to
				every word in the dictionary. That byte is
				statically defined to be $C7 (an illegal opcode)
				for ROM resident words. For RAM resident words,
				starting with the builtin @, it will hold a
				CRC of the code section of the word it relates
				to. Not all newly defined words are subject to
				this treatment. : defined and CONSTANTs are by
				default. CREATEd words may optionally be applied
				the MONITOR suffix if the checksum is to be
				computed after they have been defined. This
				is reasonable to use if their contents is not
				expected to change. An integrity check of the
				monitored words can be triggered by resorting
				to the ICHECK word.
RTCFEAT	0	NZ		Include MC146818 RTC support. This is disabled
				because the required hardware support is not
				an integraL part of the Z79Forth reference
				board. Regardless of whether or not this
				feature is enabled, 3 extra words will be added
				to the dictionary. They are RTC@ RTC! and TICKS
				They can be safely ignored.
DEBUG	0	NZ		If non-zero, extra validation code will be
				added to the assembled .hex image. This is
				most useful when developing but should not be
				used for producing production ROM images.
				CAUTION: if SSDFEAT and RELFEAT are enabled
				(see below), you will not be able to fit a
				DEBUG image into an 8 KB EEPROM!
HVNMI	1	0		Include an interrupt handler for NMI#. This
				adds 177 bytes to the EEPROM image but it is
				extremely useful for debugging a locked up
				system. The required hardware schmematics are
				unpublished at the time of this writing.
HVCONV	0	NZ		Include CONVERT in the default dictionary.
MSLCNT	794	994, any	This is a loop count used by the MS primitive.
				794 is appropriate for a 4 MHz system operating
				in 6309 native mode. 994 is appropriate for a 5
				MHz system operating in 6309 native mode. Any
				other value might be used as a result of a
				calibration process.

